.TH man 1 "man_1_simple_shell"
.SH NAME
man_1_simple_shell \- created by holberton school students Hana Ouerghemmi, Dhafer Hamza Sfaxi and Majdi Aribi.
.SH SYNOPSIS
man_1_simple_shell
Description:
.SH DESCRIPTION
Shell or command interpreter or command interpreter is a computer program that provides a user interface to access to the operating system services.
Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input or from a file.
.SH INVOCATION:
If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error.
If any of the commands entered from the terminal do not exist, bash reports an error.
If any of the entered commands exist and can be read, bash executes the entered command followed by a new line.
When the project shell starts, bash reads and executes the command entered from ~ / bin /, if the files exist.
When a login shell exits, bash reads and executes commands from the ~ / .bash / files, if the files exist.

.SH DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are used in the rest of this document:

White:
A space or tabulation.

Word:
A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as token.
name.

A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an identifier.

.SH THE COMMANDS EXECUTABLES IN THIS SHELL ARE:

/ bin: Basic (or binary) system executables, when, for example, we execute the cp command we actually execute / bin / cp.


cp: copy a file to another place.


rm: Delete files

sh, bash: Interpreters of commands.

ls: Shows the contents of a folder.

mkdir: Create a folder.

rmdir: Delete a folder

sleep: "Sleep" system during the seconds you indicate.

touch: create a file.

cat: Shows the contents of a file.

echo: shows the content of what you indicate.

kernelversion: shows the kernel version

chgrp: Change a file group.

kill: "Kill" a process.

pwd: Shows the path of the folder where we are.

chmod: Change the permissions of a file.

ln: Create a link between files or folders.

mv: Move a file.

chown: Change the user of a file.

.SH EXAMPLE OF THE COMMAND

suppose that the following command is entered by keyboard: ls -l, The result when executing the command will be the all files in directory you choose.

.SH Exit Status
  0 if ok
  1 if error

.SH AUTHOR
Chaouch Thameur (https://github.com/uoch)